# Day 12 Reading - Socket.io

## Web Sockets

> What is a Web Socket?

A Web Socket is a computer communications protocol that runs over a TCP connection. It differs from HTTP in that it has lower overhead when it comes to client/server interactions, thus allowing for continuous real-time data transfer between them.

> Describe the Web Socket request/response handshake and what happens once the connection is established.

First, an HTTP request is sent from the client to the server, which responds back with an HTTP response. After this, the connection is established and the protocol switches to a binary protocol. 

> Web Sockets provide a standardized way for the server to send content to a client without first receiving a ____ from that client.

Request.

## Socket.io Tutorial

> What does the event handler io.on() do?

It handles connections, disconnects, and events that happen within those triggers.

> Describe some possible proof of life or proof that the code works as expected

Some console logs that trigger from connection/disconnection events.

> What does socket.emit() do?

This creates an event and triggers a callback that gets called when the server listening for this event receives the emit.

## Socket.io vs Web Sockets

> What is the difference between WebSocket and Socket.IO? (think Git and GitHub, or OAuth and Auth0).

Socket.IO uses the WebSocket protocol to provide real-time communication between client and server. So if WebSocket is Git or OAuth, Socket.IO is Github/Auth0.

> When would you use Socket.IO?

When we want to broadcast across multiple sockets or have fallbacks.

> When would you use WebSockets?

If you want to implement real-time communication in a leaner manner where a library like Socket.io is not available.

## OSI Model Explained

> What are a couple of key takeaways from this video?

That the Internet is quite complex and there are many moving parts in making sure things work from low-level machine processing up to the browser level.

## TCP Handshakes Explained

> Translate the gist of this video to a non-technical friend

Client asks the server "Yo, can we connect?". The server says "Yea, you wanna connect?". And the client says "Yea" and the connection is made.


## Reflection

> What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?

I want to learn how to setup sockets so that I can have real-time communication with the server.

## Things I want to know more about

I'd like to learn more about how a web server can maintain a persistent state.