# Day 13 Reading - Message Queues

## Socket.io Chat Example

> Explain to a non-technical recruiter what the Chat Example (above) does.

We have a client (the browser) and a server. We establish a connection between then so that data can be sent between them. When the client sends a message to the server, the server sends a message to every client that's connected to it. 

So we can think of this sort of like controllers connected to a console. Each player can input different things with their controller, but they all see what's happening through the TV screen.

> What proof of life are we getting on the backend from the above app?

We're getting a console log that the clients have connected to the server.

> Socket.IO gives us the i0.emit() method to send an event to everyone. What flag would you use if you want to send a message to everyone except for a certain emitting socket?

We can use a broadcast if we want to send the message to everyone except the socket that sent the message. We can use a room if we want to be even more specific.

## Rooms

> What is a room and how might a room be useful?

A room can be thought of as like a channel that sockets can join. So if the server emits to a room, it will be sent to all the sockets subscribed to that room.

> How do you join a room?

You use .join and specify a room id of some kind.

> how do you leave a room?

You can leave a room using .leave with a specified room id.


## Namespace

> What is a Namespace and what does it allow you to do?

A namespace is kind of like a route, it allows sockets to connect to different parts of the server that may handle different functionality.

> Each namespace potentially has its own what? (hint: 3 things)

Event handlers, rooms, and middleware.

> Discuss a possible use case for separate namespaces

If we have a store ordering system, we might have a namespace for orders managed between vendors/drivers, a namespace for vendors and distributors, and a namespace for admins managing their teams.

## Reflection

> What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?

One issue I noticed with our current implementation of sockets is that we do not distinguish where messages should go if multiple instances of the same client (such as driver) are connected. I think learning about the message queue will help to resolve this issue.

## Things I want to know more about

I'd like to learn more about how to properly manage rooms.