# Day 2 Reading

## An Introduction to NodeJS and Express

> Explain middleware, answer as though I were a non-technical recruiter.

Middleware in the context of Express is basically like machines in a factory. You have separate machines that can work on a product and once it's finished its task, it can hand off to the next machine in the pipeline. 

> Express the most popular __ __ ____.

Node web framework.

> Express is “unopinionated.” What does that mean?

It means that there is no "right" way to do things. You can put together different middleware in flexible combinations
and don't necessarily have to follow a predefined structure. This allows for greater flexibility and variability in the
components that Express can incorporate, but it comes at the cost of having to define structure yourself.

> What is a module and why is modularity useful to us as developers?

A module is a small self-contained piece of code. This allows developers to reuse code in other applications and better manage code by splitting it into smaller components.

## What is NPM?

> What version of npm are you running on your machine?

9.4.0

> What command would you type to install a library/package called ‘jshint’ into your node project?

npm install jshint

## What is TDD?

Explain why tests are important. Please explain as though I were your non technical elder.

Tests are important for a few reasons:
* They help us plan out and structure our code
* They automate the process of checking that functions operate as intended
* They can improve the design process by indicating what features are needed and potential pitfalls to look out for

What are three expected benefits of testing
* Significant reduction in bugs and defects
* Reduced effort in the project's final phases
* Improved technical and design qualities in code


Name at lest 2 individual pitfalls and at least 2 team pitfalls commonly encountered while writing tests.
* Forgetting to test frequently
* Writing overly trivial tests
* Partial adoption (only some members use TDD)
* Poor maintenance of test suites

## CI/CD

> What are three benefits of Continuous Integration?

* Reduces bug accumulation
* Eases the process of code merges
* Ensures that clients receive updates more quickly

> What is the difference between Continuos Delivery and Continuous Deployment?

Essentially where your code ends up being deployed to. Test/Staging environment (Delivery) or production (Deployment).

> Explain how GitHub fits into this process assuming the listener comes from a non-technical background

Github allows developers to have their changes all come together into one place without constant coordination or waiting on someone to finish their portion of the project. It also allows them to perform testing and double-check that everything is good to go before sending the code off to actual production.

## Things I want to know more about

I often see mention of CI/CD tools when looking into software positions. Are there more tools than just Github and PaaS deployments involved in the industry?
