# Day 3 Reading - Express REST API

## ES6 Classes

> Classes are a template for creating ____.

Javascript objects.

> Can a class declaration be hoisted?

No, class declarations act like they cannot be hoisted because they are in a temporal "dead zone" until they're initialized.

> How would you describe a constructor and contextual “this” to a non-technical friend?

A constructor is a blueprint that the class uses to construct an object. It has all of the properties and default data for the object. "This" refers to the object that's created, it's like a self-reference.

## Using Express Routing

> Within Express, what does routing refer to?

Routing refers to how an application's endpoints respond to client requests.

> What is the difference between a route path and a route method?

A route path is the endpoint where a request can be made, a route method is what type of request was made.

> When is it appropriate to add next as a parameter to a route handler and what must you do if next has been passed to your middleware as a parameter?

You can add next to a route handler if you want it to be able to bypass the remaining operations and be handed off to the next handler, or to chain callbacks. If next passed as a parameter to your middleware, you need to invoke next in order to pass the request on.

## Express Routing

> What is an Express Router?

Express Router is just the routing components of the Express package. By using multiple instances of Express Router, we can have our routes spread across different modules rather than having to include them all in one place. This allows our code to be more modular and flexible to build.

> By what mean do we initialize express.Router() in an express server?

We create an instance of Express Router like so:

        const router = express.Router();

Then we apply routes to this router:

        router.get('/', callback)
        router.post('/about', callback)

Then we have our app use this router:

        app.use('/', router);

> What do we use route middleware for?

We use route middleware to do things with the request data before it finishes processing and sends back a response.

## Reflection

> What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?

Express Router seems a good way to keep the code for routes and route middleware clean and organized. I'd like to learn more about this. I'm also excited to start using the Postgres database as SQL seems more powerful and easier to organize complex data to me than NoSQL.

## Things I want to know more about

What makes Postgres different from something like MySQL?