# Day 4 Reading - Data Modeling

## nosql vs sql

> What type of database is the best fit for the complex query intensive environment?

SQL is the best for complex queries as you can bring together models through relationships. This also makes complex data queries easier to organize.

> What type of database is the best fit for hierarchical data storage?

NoSQL as you do not have to define a strict schema and can simple keep everything in a single store.

> Describe the differences in scalability between a SQl and NoSQL database as though you were speaking to a non-technical friend.

SQL can vertically scale, meaning that you can upgrade the server to improve performance. So this would be like upgrading a single car. Whereas NoSQL improves by adding in more servers, which would be like adding another car to a fleet of cars.

## sql modeling techniques

> Among data tables, what is a one-to-many relationship and how do we “relate” them?

A one-to-many relationship is one where an entity can be related to many of another entity. So for example, a single Band can be related to many Band Members. We relate these entities through a foreign key.

> Prior to designing your relational database, it might be useful to ___ a ___ of the database tables and their relationships.

Model a diagram.

> Explain the difference between a primary and foreign key.

A primary key is a unique identifier for an entry in a table whereas a foreign key is a unique identifier to an entry in another table.

## sql vs nosql

> How do we treat keywords and parameters differently in SQL syntax?

You capitalize keywords and use lowercase for paramters.

> Define normalization within the context of schemas and data.

Normalization is defining schemas that are able to minimize redundancy and potential issues (such as null values on insertion) for data entries.

> Explain the difference between one-to-one, one-to-many, and many-to-many relationships to a non-technical recruiter.

* One-to-one relationship means an entry is related to one other entry in another table.
* One-to-many relationship means an entry can be related to many entries in another table.
* Many-to-many relationship means entries in one table can be related to many entries in another table, and vice versa.

## Reflection

> What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?

I want to learn how to define different relationships between tables with Postgres.

## Things I want to know more about

What are the different levels of normalization?