# Day 6 Reading - Authentication

## Securing Passwords

> Explain to a non-technical friend how you would safely hash and store a password.

You would use a hashing algorithm, which is basically a way of taking a password and converting it into a scrambled mess of text. This way, if anyone hacks our data store, all they'll get is scrambled text that is difficult to unscramble.

This scrambled mess is computed mathematically, so you can recalulate it over and over and still get the same result. So if we wanted to check if the password is correct, we could scramble a user's input and compare it with the scrambled password we already stored.

> What is Bcrypt?

Bcrypt is a hashing algorithm.

> Why might you use something like Bcrypt?

It is an adaptive hashing algorithm, meaning we can adjust how intensive the hashing is as the performance of computers increase. This lets us keep ahead of reverse-engineering attempts.

## Basic Auth

> What is Basic Authentication?

It is a method to send username/password values over HTTP. In this request, a header contains the username/password values in base-64 encoding.

> What properties are necessary in the header of a Basic Auth request?

Needs to be in the following format:

Basic <Base64 encoded username>:<Base64 encoded password>

> How are username:password in Basic Auth encoded?

In Base-64 encoding.

## OWASP auth cheatsheet

> Define the authentication process to a non-technical recruiter.

Usually, the authentication process is done by comparing credentials provided by a user.

> How should your error messaging respond (both HTTP and HTML)? Why?

The HTML should respond by saying something more on the vague side, such as 'invalid username or password'. This makes it harder to tell which element was wrong. The error code should be a 403.


## Reflection

> Looking ahead at this module’s course schedule, What do you look forward to learning?

I look forward to role based access control as I want to see how we can differentiate permissions on user accounts.

> What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?

I want to learn more about how to implement hashing with authentication as that's something I've always been interested in implementing.

## Things I want to know more about

I wonder what various kinds of hashing algorithms are out there?