# Day 7 Reading - Bearer Authorization

## Intro to JWT

> What is a JSON Web Token (JWT)?

It's a standard that defines how to structure a secure and self-contained way to transit information via a JSON object. The web token is usually signed with a digital signature in order to secure the data.

> When should we use JSON Web Tokens?

Authorization or when we need to securely transmit data between two parties. Because the signature can use the header and content in its calculation, this can also ensure that the data hasn't been tampered with.

> Claims are expected in which structural component of a JWT?

In the payload.

## Are JWTs secure?

> If I get a JWT and I can decode the payload, how can we call that secure?

The JWT by itself isn't secure. However, if it has a digital signature, this gives us a way to tell if the data has been tampered with. Because the token won't match if it's decoded without the correct signature.

> If sending a JWT, what must sender and receiver both know? Hint, it’s appended in the signature.

The secret.

> Explain how concatenated content and secret can be sent and received securely to a non-technical recruiter.

We're just making sure that the content hasn't been tampered with. The way we do this is creating a unique signature based off the data we get and a secret value. If we know that secret value, then if we try to recreate the unique signature with the data we got sent, it will only match if the data hasn't changed.

## JWTs explained

> Why use JWT?

It's standardized and an easy way to make sure that the data we're being sent is not maliciously modified.

> JWT is Compact and self-contained. Describe how this is useful to a non-technical friend.

This means we don't send a ton of data over the web and we don't need any dependencies to check it.

> What are the three components (the structure) of a JWT signature?

Header, payload, and secret.


## Reflection

> What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?

I'd like to learn how to incorporate the token in our basic auth.

## Things I want to know more about

Is it better to store a token in a database or in a session/cookie?