# Day 8 Reading - Access Control
## 5 Steps to RBAC

> What is Role Based Access Control (RBAC) and why do we care?

It's basically making sure that different users have different permissions. This allows us to minimize the impact of stolen credentials, by limiting what the compromised user would have access to.

> Describe a Role/Permission heirarchy that you might implement using RBAC.

* Admin
* Content Creator
* User
* Guest

> What approach might you take to implement RBAC?

* Find out what kind of access and permissions we need.
* Group potential users based off that access.
* Create roles based off those groups.

## wiki - RBAC

> If Authentication is “you are who you say you are,” what is Authorization?

Authorization is "you have a badge that says you can access something".

> Name three primary rules defined for RBAC.

* Role assignment
* Role authorization
* Permission authorization

> Describe RBAC to a non-technical friend.

It is a way of standardizing how people in an organization have access to different things. A person gets assigned a role, which has certain authorizations given to that role, and those authorizations can be used like a badge for them to access certain things.

## RBAC tutorial

> What Are access rights Associated with? The User? or The Role? Explain.

Access rights are associated with the role. This allows users to have their access changed simply by changing their role assignments. This way, a single user doesn't have unique permissions and doesn't need individual management for their access.

> Access Rights, or Authorization, is activated after a user successfully does what?

After a user is assigned a role.

> Explain how RBAC might benefit a business.

RBAC will make it much easier to manage the access for a large body of people. It also allows for updates or changes to access permissions and authorizations to be done more easily. It also allows for better security by only allowing certain roles to have access to various things.

## Reflection

> What are your learning goals after reading and reviewing the class README?

I'd like to learn how to implement access control into a basic Express API.

## Things I want to know more about

Are there downsides to using RBAC? It seems like a very solid standard to follow.