# Day 1 Notes
## Statement
***
The topic of components and props are important because they are the building blocks of React.

## Component-based Architecture  
***
> What is a component?

A component is a software object or functionality that encapsulates its implementation and can be used/interact with other components.
  
> What are the characteristics of a component?

The primary characteristic of a component is that it is modular:
* Reusable
    * Can be reused in different environments or for different tasks
* Replaceable
    * Can be replaced by components with similar functionality
* Not context-specific
    * Can be used in different environments or contexts
* Independent
    * Has minimal dependencies on other components
* Extensible
    * Can extend from existing components to provide new behavior
* Encapsulated
    * Functionality can be used without exposing its internal implementation

> What are the advantages of using component-based architecture?

* Components can be reused and work in a variety of different environments.
* Complex code bases can be simplified and separated into parts so that they are easier to understand and manage.
* Reduced development time/costs  as components can be reused and have fewer reliability issues when used in other contexts.

## What is Props and How to Use it in React
***
> What is “props” short for?

Properties.

> How are props used in React?

Props are used in a similar fashion to parameters or arguments passed into functions. Data is passed into a component in the parent component.. As a result, props are also “read-only” and cannot have updates or modifications reflected in the parent.

> What is the flow of props?

From parent to child.

***

## Things I want to know more about
I am curious about how other Javascript libraries such as jQuery would be integrated into React components if, for example, you wanted to use jQuery's animation capabilities. 

Since React doesn't work with DOM elements, would the jQuery functionality have to come into play after ReactDOM updates the DOM?