# Day 10 Notes
## Statement

Knowing how the call stack works and errors in general are very useful for debugging.

***

## Functional Programming Concepts
***

> What is a ‘call’?

A call is an invocation of a function.

> How many ‘calls’ can happen at once?

Only one call can happen at a time.

> What does LIFO mean?

Last in, first out. It refers to how data is placed into and taken out in a stack.

> Draw an example of a call stack and the functions that would need to be invoked to generate that call stack.

    Say we have firstFunction() and secondFunction() that calls firstFunction().
    When we call secondFunction(), a Stack = [] is created.
    secondFunction() is pushed into that stack.
    [secondFunction]
    Now we call firstFunction(), it is pushed on top of secondFunction().
    [firstFunction, secondFunction]
    firstFunction is at the top of the stack, so it is executed first.
    Once it has finished, firstFunction is popped out and secondFunction is executed.
    Once secondFunction is finished, the memory from the stack is cleared.

> What causes a Stack Overflow?

A stack overflow happens when the stack is filled up to the brim. This usually occurs because there is an infinite loop adding functions to the stack.

## Javascript error messages
***

> What is a ‘reference error’?

An example would referencing a variable that has not been declared yet.

> What is a ‘syntax error’?

An example would be using the wrong format when declaring a JSON object.

> What is a ‘range error’?

An example would be giving an array an invalid length (such as a negative length).

> What is a ‘type error’?

An example is trying to access a property that is undefined. The type of the value you are trying to use or access is incompatible.

> What is a breakpoint?

A breakpoint is a "freezing" point in your code while it's executing.

> What does the word ‘debugger’ do in your code?

It adds a breakpoint to the code so that you can "freeze" execution of the code and see what's happening there.

***
## Things I want to know more about
I want to know more about tools for debugging Javascript. I find the debugger in browser inspectors to be a bit confusing and unintuitive to use at times.