# Day 12 Notes
## Statement

Knowing about error codes and their groupings will make it easier when we start building out our API. And seeing a guide for a full backend API with database included will be very useful for our upcoming assignments.

***

## Status Codes Based on REST Methods
***

> In your own words, describe what each group of status code represents:

* 100’s = Informational, gives information about the transmission of a request.
* 200’s = Indicates that a request was accepted.
* 300’s = Redirection, pointing the request elsewhere.
* 400’s = Indicates errors from the client side.
* 500’s = Indicates errors from the server side.

> What is a status code 202?

This indicates that a request was accepted, but hasn't been resolved yet. Usually for asynchronous requests.

> What is a status code 308?

Permanent redirect, indicating a resource will use a different URL.

> What code would you use if an update didn’t return data to a client?

A 204 error code.

> What code would you use if a resource used to exist but no longer does?

Error 410.

> What is the ‘Forbidden’ status code?

Error 403.

## Build a REST API with Node.JS, Express, & MongoDB
***

> Why do we need to pull our MongoDB database string out of our server and put it into our .env?

So that sensitive information has less chance of being exposed to the user or malicious entities.

> What is middleware?

Code that runs when the server runs a request, but before it gets passed to the route.

> What does app.use(express.json()) do?

Lets Express accept JSON data in the body rather than as a response element.

> What does the /:id mean in a route?

The colon indicates that the value in the route is a parameter and can be accessed through request.params.

> What is the difference between PUT and PATCH?

PUT will change all the values in an update while PATCH will allow for changing just certain values.

> How do you make a default value in a schema?

Put a default property in the schema.

> What does a 500 error status code mean?

It means an internal server error, or that there was an issue with the server backend code.

> What is the difference between a status 200 and a status 201?

A 200 status indicates that a request has succeeded. Status 201 is more specific, indicating that a create request has succeeded and a resource has been created.


***
## Things I want to know more about
I see many ways to handle errors from the server, what is sort of the industry standard way of handling them?