# Day 14 Notes
## Statement

Diversity is an essential concept for the modern tech world due to how technology has encouraged globalization and extremely diverse user bases for products.
***

## That Time When Women Stopped Coding
***

> What occurred during the same time as the beginning of the decline of women in computer science?

The era of personal computers arrived, with marketing and popular culture targeting males as the main demographic for computers.

> Why does it matter that males had been playing on computers growing up?

In higher education, professors would assume that people entering technology-related programs already had experience using a computer. Since females were less likely to have had opportunities to use computers, they were disadvantaged in these programs.


## Why diversity matters to your tech company
***

> When are diversity efforts most successful?

They are most successful when driven by committment from leadership.

> Why do diverse companies perform better?

Diversity in teams can bring in a wide range of knowledge and experiences that may be more limited in less diverse teams.

> Give an example of how a diverse company can serve a diverse user base or vise-versa.

A company focused on serving an international user base would likely benefit from having more diversity on their teams, as people from different cultural backgrounds may have different ideas and perspectives that are more reflective of different demographics in the user base.


***
## Things I want to know more about

Why did marketing and pop culture target males when it came to computers? Were there earlier biases about males and tech-related concepts such as math and engineering?
