# Day 15 Notes
## Statement

When we're handling sensitive data, it's important that we have the proper authentication and authorization for our users.

***

## What is OAuth?
***

> What is OAuth?

OAuth is an open standard for single sign-on authorization.

> Give an example of what using OAuth would look like.

If you go on Github, you can log in with credentials from other sites that have already been authenticated such as a Google account or Facebook account.

> How does OAuth work? What are the steps that it takes to authenticate the user?

* The first website connects to the second website on behalf of the user, using OAuth, providing the user’s verified identity.
* The second site generates a one-time token and a one-time secret unique to the transaction and parties involved.
* The first site gives this token and secret to the initiating user’s client software.
* The client’s software presents the request token and secret to their authorization provider (which may or may not be the second site).
* If not already authenticated to the authorization provider, the client may be asked to authenticate. After authentication, the client is asked to approve the authorization transaction to the second website.
* The user approves (or their software silently approves) a particular transaction type at the first website.
* The user is given an approved access token (notice it’s no longer a request token).
* The user gives the approved access token to the first website.
* The first website gives the access token to the second website as proof of authentication on behalf of the user.
* The second website lets the first website access their site on behalf of the user.
* The user sees a successfully completed transaction occurring.

(from [source](https://www.csoonline.com/article/3216404/what-is-oauth-how-the-open-authorization-framework-works.html))

> What is OpenID?

It was a single sign-on standard for authentication. It is now used as an authentication layer alongside OAuth.

## Authorization and Authentication flows
***

> What is the difference between authorization and authentication?

Authentication is verifying the identity of the user, authorization is verifying what they have access to.

> What is Authorization Code Flow?

It is an algorithm for how to give a user authorization via an Auth0 server.

> What is Authorization Code Flow with Proof Key for Code Exchange (PKCE)?

This is an additional layer of security for mobile and native applications.

> What is Implicit Flow with Form Post?

This is an alternative to Authorization Code Flow for clients that cannot securely store client Secrets.

> What is Client Credentials Flow?

This is a way to authorize services rather than the user directly.

> What is Device Authorization Flow?

Instead of asking the user to authorize directly, this directs the user to a link that lets them authorize a device.

> What is Resource Owner Password Flow?

This can authorize users based on username/password credentials.

***
## Things I want to know more about

I'm pretty lose on the details of authentication, so that's something I want to look more into.
