# Day 2 Notes
## Statement
***
Learning about the lifecycle of React helps us better understand how React works under the hood, which should help us when trying to understand how to structure functionality in React components or debugging them.

Learning about state is important as, along with props, it is one of the core ways that React handles data. It seems state is crucial for being able to manage data from user input.


## React Lifecycle
***
> Based off the diagram, what happens first, the 'render' or the 'componentDidMount'?

The 'render'.

> What is the very first thing to happen in the lifecycle of React?

The 'constructor' creates an instance of the component.

> Put the following things in the order that they happen:

* constructor
* render
* componentDidMount
* React Updates
* componentWillUnmount

> What does componentDidMount do?

It allows functionality to be called after the component has been mounted. This means the React elements have been instantiated and rendered in the DOM.

## React State vs Props
***

> What types of things can you pass in the props?

Any valid Javascript value can be passed into props, such as objects, functions, arrays, numbers, booleans, etc.

> What is the big difference between props and state?

"State is handled in the component and can be updated in the component, while props are handled outside the component and must be updated outside of the component." (from [React State vs Props video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYvD9oBCuJI))

> When do we re-render our application?

After we change our state.

> What are some examples of things that we could store in state?

Input elements such as checkboxes or text fields that take user input. We can store the updated values from the user in state.

***
## Things I want to know more about
The video states (haha) that state is used within the component. This sounds like state's scope is component-level. If we wanted something like a "global" state, would we be passing that down through props? 

How exactly can a child component make updates to props in a parent component so that it'll properly pass down?