# Day 3 Notes
## Statement
***
You can use loop methods like map to create lists of elements. Keys are important here as they're how React keeps track of individual elements in lists. 

The spread operator is a powerful tool to use for manipulating lists in React.

Knowing how to pass functions to other components is crucial if you want interactive elements that aren't just limited to one component's scope.

## React Docs - list and keys
***
> What does .map() return?

A new array created with the values of the current array object and whatever modifications were done to them during the map.

> If I want to loop through an array and display each value in JSX, how do I do that in React?

You can use map to loop through the array and return a new array with the values in React elements. Then you can use template literals if you want to include the whole array of elements somewhere in the JSX file.

> Each list item needs a unique **key**.

> What is the purpose of a key?

A key helps React keep track of individual elements in a list so that they can be updated properly.

## The Spread Operator
***
> What is the spread operator?

 The spread operator is an operator that "spreads" or expands the contents of an iterable object into individual arguments.

> List 4 things that the spread operator can do.
* Copy arrays
* Concatenate or combine arrays
* Split an array into individual values for a Math function
* Combine object properties

> Give an example of using the spread operator to combine two arrays.

    const array1 = [1, 2, 3];
    const array 2 = [1, 2, 3];
    const array3 = [...array1,...array2];
    //[1. 2, 3, 1, 2, 3]

> Give an example of using the spread operator to add a new item to an array.

    const array1 =[1, 2, 3];
    const array2 = [...array1, 4];
    //[1, 2, 3, 4]

> Give an example of using the spread operator to combine two objects into one.

    const obj1 = {hello: "world"};
    const obj2 = {goodbye: "dog"};
    const obj3 = {...obj1,...obj2};
    //{ hello: "world", goodbye: "dog" }

## How to Pass Functions into Components
***
> In the video, what is the first step that the developer does to pass functions between components?

The developer creates the method in the parent component that he wants to pass down.


> In your own words, what does the increment function do?

The increment function in the parent component takes a name as a parameter. 

Then it loops through the people's array kept by the component's state until it finds the Person object with a matching name. 

Once it has found the matching Person object, it updates the count property for that Person.

Then it updates the state with the updated array.


> How can you pass a method from a parent component into a child component?

You pass down the method through props into the child component. 

> How does the child component invoke a method that was passed to it from a parent component?

The child component can invoke the method within one of its own methods and pass any arguments that are needed.

***
## Things I want to know more about
***
I'm wondering if you could send multiple functions at once through props, rather than setting each one individually. 

Would you be able to send them inside an object (setting function as a value for a property) or could you use an array of functions?