# Day 4 Notes
## Statement
***

Controlled components let you take full advantage of the dynamic capabilities of React and have them applied to form elements, rather than building that functionality all yourself.

Ternary operators are useful in React where a lot of code can become overly verbose due to the markup syntax for elements.

## React Docs - Forms
***

> What is a ‘Controlled Component’?

A controlled component is an input form element that's "rigged" up to the state. This allows React to handle the value and rendering of the input form.

> Should we wait to store the users responses from the form into state when they submit the form OR should we update the state with their responses as soon as they enter them? Why.

We should update the state with their responses as soon as they enter them because otherwise React won't be able to render the updated values.

> How do we target what the user is entering if we have an event handler on an input field?

We pass in the event as a parameter then use event.target.value.

## The Conditional (Ternary) Operator Explained
***

> Why would we use a ternary operator?

It can be a cleaner and more readable way to write an if/else statement.

> Rewrite the following statement using a ternary statement:

x === y ? console.log(true) : console.log(false);

***
## Things I want to know more about

I'd like to learn more about the different ways you can execute conditional rendering for React elements as it looks like
certain ways would be cleaner depending on the situation.
