# Day 5 Notes
## Statement
Knowing how to think in React is vital for not having "blank paper" syndrome, where you don't know where to start. It also
helps to break up some of the complex interactions happening between components.

Higher-order functions are used all over the place in React. Understanding their capabilities and what the term refers to
will likely help when explaining components to others.
***

## React Docs - Thinking in React
***

> What is the single responsibility principle and how does it apply to components?

The single responsibility principle is a guideline stating that a function or object should ideally do one thing. If we apply this thinking to components, it can help us decide what our components should do and how they should be split up.

> What does it mean to build a ‘static’ version of your application?

A static version of our application is just the UI elements with no dynamic data or functionality based off user input. By building a static version first, we can focus on displaying the page and contents correctly before applying functionality.

> Once you have a static application, what do you need to add?

You need to add state to the application so that you can keep track of dynamic updates and trigger them. Apply DRY principles (Don't Repeat Yourself) in order to keep the state as lean as possible.

> What are the three questions you can ask to determine if something is state?

* Is it passed in from parent over props? (If so, it isn't state)
* Does it ever change? (If it doesn't, it isn't state)
* Can you compute it via any other state or prop in the component? (If so, it isn't state)

> How can you identify where state needs to live?

* Find every component that needs to render the state.
* Find the common parent component between them, or create a component that'll be the common parent.
* Place state in there and process state in that component.

## Higher-Order Functions
***

> What is a “higher-order function”?

A function that either accepts another function as an argument to operate on it, or a function that returns another function.


> Explore the greaterThan function as defined in the reading. In your own words, what is line 2 of this function doing?

We can expand the arrow function like so:

    function greaterThan(n) {
        return function(m) {
            return m > n;
        };
    }

What we see is that greaterThan creates a function that accepts a variable and returns that. This new function still has a reference to the parameter in the greaterThan function, so it's able to compare the two separate variables.

> Explain how either map or reduce operates, with regards to higher-order functions.

Both map and reduce work by taking a function in as an argument and applying it to a list of values. Map does this to produce a new array with modified array values while reduce uses this to produce a new value from combining the array values.


***
## Things I want to know more about
The trick with a function creating a function is interesting, I wonder what kind of applications this has?
