# Day 6 Notes
## Statement
Learning about node.js is important as it will be the backbone of our backend services moving forward. Familiarity with node.js is also useful for React and the various dependencies we might use with it.

Pair programming is a useful experience for developing one's hard and soft skills as a programmer.
***

## An introduction to Node.JS
***

> What is node.js?

Node.JS is a runtime environment that uses Chrome's V8 engine as its foundation.

> In your own words, what is Chrome’s V8 JavaScript Engine?

Chrome's V8 Javascript Engine can be compared to a compiler, or something that parses Javascript code into commands that can be executed by the machine. 

> What does it mean that node is a JavaScript runtime?

As a runtime environment, node provides access to various libraries and utilities during the program's runtime.

> What is npm?

NPM stands for Node Package Manager. It is a tool that helps install and manage packages of Javascript code.

> What version of node are you running on your machine?

v19.6.1

> What version of npm are you running on your machine?

v9.4.0

> What command would you type to install a library/package called ‘jshint’?

**for global installation**

npm install -g jshint

**for local installation**

npm init -y (initializes package.json)

npm install jshint --save (installs jshint locally and saves it as a dependency in package.json)

> What is node used for?

Node and npm can be used to run various build tools and dependencies. Node can also be used as a backend language that lets you run a server and handle server-side code.


## 6 Reasons for Pair Programming
***

> What are the 6 reasons for pair programming?

* Better efficiency (higher-quality code, less research time, faster solutions, etc)
* Engaged collaboration (less tempation to get distracted, rely on each other for assistance)
* Learning from fellow students (exposure to different approaches/experience)
* Social skills (builds communication skills)
* Job interview readiness (interviews may have pair programming elements)
* Work environment readiness (can hit the ground running at companies that utilize pair programming)

> In your experience, which of these reasons have you found most beneficial?

Engaged collaboration and learning from fellow students. I find that during pair programming, it is easier to break out of "rabbit holes" and figure out different approaches rather than getting stuck.

> How does pair programming work?

One person acts as the Navigator (thinks about the big picture such as the algorithm, development plan, research, keep an eye out for bugs, etc). The other acts as the Driver (writes code, sets up environment, manages editor, etc).

***
## Things I want to know more about
I'm still not quite clear on the differences between a runtime and an engine, in the context of Javascript. It feels like there are various definitions out there for them and the terms are sometimes used interchangeably. Yet, having two separate terms for them must indicate that there are factors unique to one or the other?

And what about an engine vs a compiler?