# Day 8 Notes
## Statement

Knowing best practices for APIs are good to know as it helps us better understand APIs and also
lets us know how one should go about designing one should the need arise.

***

## API Design Best Practices
***

> What does REST stand for?

REpresentation State Transfer.

> REST APIs are designed around a ____.

Resource aka an object, piece of data, or service.

> What is an identifier of a resource? Give an example.

The identifier is a URI (Unique Resource Identifier), something that uniquely identifies the resource that is being requested.

Example would be: https://givememovies.com/movies/drama/142

> What are the most common HTTP verbs?

GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, and DELETE.

> What should the URIs be based on?

Nouns aka what the resource is.

> Give an example of a good URI.

https://givemovies.com/movies

A good URI shouldn't be more complex than /collection/item/collection/.

> What does it mean to have a ‘chatty’ web API? Is this a good or a bad thing?

A "chatty" web API is one where data is retrieved in multiple small requests. This is a bad thing as it causes a lot of overhead for the server. It is better to group the data into larger esources.

> What status code does a successful GET request return?

200 or a 204 (if there's no content)

> What status code does an unsuccessful GET request return?

404

> What status code does a successful POST request return?

201

> What status code does a successful DELETE request return?

204


***
## Things I want to know more about
I saw an example in the reading where one could "chain" URIs to get a more specific resource. I'm not able to quite wrap my head around this yet, so I'd like to look into this more.