# Day 9 Notes
## Statement

Functional programming seems to be an important tool when using Javascript as functions are used everywhere and for all sorts of purposes.

Modules and require are to node.js as what components and import are to React. 

***

## Functional Programming Concepts
***

> What is functional programming?

"Functional programming is a programming paradigm — a style of building the structure and elements of computer programs — that treats computation as the evaluation of mathematical functions and avoids changing-state and mutable data" - [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Functional_programming)

In simple terms, programming that is focused on using functions.

> What is a pure function and how do we know if something is a pure function?

A pure function has two requirements:
* It is deterministic, or always returning the same value if given the same arguments.
* It has no external effect on other parts of the program, aside from its return value.

> What are the benefits of a pure function?

They are less complex because their effects are compartmentalized and they are easier to test as their results are predictable.

> What is immutability?

It means unchanging. In the case of functions, it refers to their lack of external effect. Functions should not change the state of their inputs or things outside their scope. If they need to change something, it should be done by returning a value into another function.

> What is Referential transparency?

The two requirements of a pure function means their results are predictable, given the same inputs. This means that they can be optimized by "remembering" previous calculations.


## NodeJS Tutorial for Beginners #6 - Modules and require
***

> What is a module?

A module is a modular piece of Javascript code. 

> What does the word ‘require’ do?

Require basically imports a module so that its contents can be used by another Javascript file.

> How do we bring another module into the file the we are working in?

We use require().

> What do we have to do to make a module available?

We have to export the module.

***
## Things I want to know more about
I still don't quite have my head wrapped around functional programming, so I'd like to learn more about it actually works in practice.